get started my name is Jay and I'm one
of the teachers at e2 language comm in
this lesson live class whatever you want
to call it we're going to look at IELTS
writing task 2 which most people find
entirely confusing because while it's
not simple is it there's a lot of
writing that has to be done a lot of
sentences a lot of words a lot of
punctuation a lot of grammar a lot of
vocabulary in fact it can be made easier
in this one we're going to look at the
advantages and disadvantages question
type but what I'm going to teach you
will apply to all of the different
question types that you may see on test
day the first thing you want to do is
look at the question prompt of course
you want to understand that question
prompt and on test day it's going to
look like this it's going to just give
you a general instruction you should
spend 40 minutes on this task write
about the following topic then you're
going to see the really important thing
here and really you can ignore this
other stuff you just want to focus here
this one says University students are
increasingly studying abroad as part of
their studies do the advantages of
studying abroad outweigh the
disadvantages okay so it's asking us
about students studying abroad is it
good or is it bad or or does the
goodness outweigh the badness now the
thing is you may see clearly this word
advantage or disadvantage other times it
will say benefits and drawbacks might
say positive and negative but either way
this is the advantage disadvantage
question type fine we need to look at it
a bit more closely because there are
three parts to this question prompt
first one is a general statement it says
University students are increasingly
studying abroad as part of their studies
this is just a general statement what
this does is just sets the context of
the essay every question prompt you see
will have a first sentence general
statement it's important because I'll
show you in a minute why the
second part of this one basically asks
you what are the advantages of studying
abroad okay it actually says do the
advantages of studying abroad outweigh
the disadvantages but we can look at
this like this what are the advantages
of studying abroad and the third part is
of course what are the disadvantages of
studying abroad so if we look at this
question type there are three parts the
general statement what are the
advantages what are the disadvantages
cool we've just understood that let's
just think about the structure we're
going to write a four paragraph
structure and introduction to body
paragraphs and a conclusion this is what
the entire essay will look like sentence
by sentence and what I want you to do is
with me in this lesson is write a full
essay sentence by sentence from
beginning to end we're going to skip
paragraph two because we'll do that in
paragraph one so effectively we're
writing the introduction paragraph one
and the conclusion and I'm going to show
you mine as we go alright let's start
with the introduction how do we write
the introduction
well the introduction looks like this
this is the first part of the essay and
if we look closely at it it has three
sentences sentence one we rewrite the
general statement in our own words okay
that's easy that's a good way to get
started I know exactly how to start my
essay on test day sentence two we
mentioned main advantage and
disadvantage okay that's easy enough so
what's the main advantage of studying
abroad what's the main disadvantage of
studying abroad we mentioned that in one
sentence fine and then centered three
give your opinion okay so do you think
the advantages outweigh the
disadvantages let's do it let's write
sentence one we need to rewrite this
general statement in our own words it
says University students are
increasingly studying abroad as part of
their studies introduction rewrite that
general statement you have two minutes
to do this
rewrite this in your own words to mean
exactly the same thing but just rephrase
it write it differently
two minutes starts now Herman says more
and more tertiary students are studying
overseas recently good well done perfect
Mohamed says trend of studying in
different other countries is going to
increase no it's currently increasing
it's not going to increase it's
currently increasing so you say the
trend of studying in another country is
currently increasing make sure you write
the exact get the same meaning but just
in different words the trend of studying
in another country is currently
increasing good well then 30 seconds
left pseudo says growing number of
university students a growing a growing
number of university students up to
study abroad nowadays good perfect Julia
says the students at the universities
tend to complete this study overseas not
quite Julia you've missed the increasing
part about it Nisha says currently many
people are preferring to study abroad at
universities good not bad well done
Maria says nowadays people are likely to
continue to study in the developed
countries no it's got nothing to do with
developed countries it's just about
studying abroad make sure you get the
exact meaning we don't want to add in
more information or write anything
inaccurate Maria says there is an
increasing amount of students studying
in a foreign land good but I would say
there is an increasing number of
students studying in foreign countries
good Ashida says tertiary institutions
students are focusing on pursuing the
studies in other countries excellent
well done we've just written the first
sentence of our introduction here's mine
ok so I'm going to capture the same
meaning University students are
increasingly studying abroad as part of
their studies I wrote many university
students routinely study in other
Institute's around the world as part of
their degrees good so this sort of
increasingly and I wrote routinely
that's it actually I think some of yours
were better than mine here but I've
captured the main idea here ok I've just
rewritten it that's that's all you have
to do to start your essay which is great
because it relieves a lot of anxiety
because you know how to begin
cool and we've just written the first
sentence so let's move on to the sec
second sentence which says mention main
advantage and disadvantage singular one
of each so one sentence what's the main
advantage and what's the main
disadvantage I want you to try and write
this in a single sentence you may want
to use a structure like although blah
blah blah blah blah blah or despite blah
blah blah blah blah blah let's see if we
can get two ideas into the one sentence
two minutes
you
Maria says although studying abroad can
give them the students the opportunity
to learn other languages and cultures it
can cost them more compared to to their
countries good well done Mohammed said
students can get some major courses
which are not available in their own
country and some Advanced Study
available abroad good but there's no
disadvantage there Mohammed I want I
want an advantage and a disadvantage in
the one sentence using a structure like
although they can get this advantage
there is this disadvantage Hermann no
homo not yet whoopsy I just realized if
I look at YouTube you can't see my
screen so I apologize I won't do that
again
good
spencey of good so that's the
disadvantage expense services the
foremost benefit of pursuing higher
education from overseas could be more
cultural difference awareness however on
the downside it could cost them far more
than in their own country good well done
so you've got cultural awareness as the
advantage and you've got cost as the
disadvantage that's fine ruchi says
although students get to learn and meet
people getting used to the culture takes
a lot of time good I agree I agree I
agree and I wrote something kind of
similar to you guys I wrote this and I
started with an although sentence
because when you use an although blah
blah blah blah blah blah or despite blah
blah blah blah blah blah you can put
both the disadvantages and advantages in
one sentence so I wrote this all those
students will often struggle with
cultural and linguistic challenges while
abroad they will also gain significant
life experiences that will reward them
later on in their careers cool so what's
my advantages well significant life
experiences and I put that at the end
the first idea though I put is the
disadvantage was cultural and linguistic
challenges or cultural challenges and
language challenges other disadvantages
the advantages are the significant life
experience and now my essay is going to
be about that from this sentence I now
have my two paragraphs that I will write
one paragraph will be about language and
cultural challenges of studying abroad a
second paragraph will be about how you
can benefit your life from personal
experience okay cool let's we've done
sentence two now we move on to sentence
three we need to give our opinion so I'm
going to show you mine so which do you
think is better studying abroad or not
this is what I wrote and I'm going to go
back so you can write yours in a second
in my opinion students are far better
off having studied in a different
country despite the challenges that they
will inevitably face
so my opinion is that the advantages
outweigh disadvantages I've outlined
them if this is my introduction now I'm
going to move from here into my
paragraphs to give more and more details
let's go back though because I want you
to write your opinion which do you think
is better studying abroad or not
you
all right let's have a look at some of
these answers what are your opinions
Julia says I believe that the positive
points of studying overseas surpass the
negative aspects good well done what
else we got this is an easy sentence to
write ruchi says in my opinion studying
abroad opens new avenues and certainly
outweighs the disadvantages excellent
neasha says in my opinion studying
abroad has many advantages then has more
advantages than disadvantages Mohammed
says in my opinion Commerce studying
abroad is more beneficial even though it
is costly good Mohammed good good good
Sudha says in my opinion students will
benefit more by studying overseas even
though they may have to pay significant
amounts of money well done cool bananas
and guess what we've just done we have
just written our introduction three
sentences first one we rewrote the
general statement second one we mention
the advantage and disadvantage third one
we gave our opinion and it's a beautiful
introduction it looks like this I'm
going to read it to you many university
students routinely study in other
Institute's around the world as part of
their degrees all those students will
often struggle with cultural and
linguistic challenges well abroad that
will also gain significant life
experiences that will reward them later
on in their careers in my opinion
students are far better off having
studied in a different country despite
the challenges that they will inevitably
face sixty-six words for that
introduction good and that's what it is
it's those three sentences fine how do
we write a paragraph okay how do we
write paragraph one well we're going to
learn how to do it I want you to do it
and the same principles will apply to
paragraph two so if we learn how to do
this one then we can write the next one
no problem so your first paragraph I'm
going to talk about the advantage and my
advantage that I said was culture what
did I say what did I say our significant
life experience like personal growth so
I'm going to write a paragraph about how
studying abroad can lead to personal
growth
that's my advantage that's my one main
advantage okay
sentence 1 I'm going to outline that
main advantage sentence 2 I'm going to
give reasons why studying abroad leads
to personal growth sentence 3 I'm going
to give some examples maybe even
personal examples
sentence 4 I'm just going to restate
that main advantage of personal growth
let's do it together so let's start with
sentence 1 what's the main advantage of
studying abroad elaborate on your
introductory idea what's the main
advantage one sentence say in different
words what your main advantage is in
more detail
all right let's have a look at some of
these answers I'm sorry I can't look on
YouTube but there's a delay so I'm just
answering people in the webinar now but
keep putting your comments in to the
live chat on YouTube put together your
whole essay at the end we will come away
with the entire essay so it's worth your
time what have we got
Herman says one argument put forward in
favor of the prime benefit is to gain
plenty of experience from other
countries cultures and other
international friends
okay so you've split it off into two
ideas you're talking about culture and
friends so just choose one just choose
one Richie says students get to learn a
lot during the study abroad good that's
fine it's a simple clear sentence that's
fine sometimes simplicity and clarity a
far better than complexity if you can't
control your sentence
Suda says one of the main advantages of
studying overseas is becoming more aware
of cultural differences between
countries beautiful well done moment
said some major courses are not
available in most of the countries so
that it is necessary to move in some
advanced countries okay good yep that's
fine good that's fine well done Julia
the crucial beneficial factor of having
the opportunity to study abroad is that
this provides more options for a future
career good well done you've got a
single idea there that's fine you're
going to elaborate on that in
next three sentences Maria says the main
point which can be claimed as an
advantage of studying abroad is that
students may experience other cultures
languages good I said that rude she says
most of the studies are based on
practical exposure where they get to do
something hands-on fine what did I write
I wrote this I wrote this the greatest
benefit that's a nice way of saying that
the biggest advantage the greatest
benefit of studying abroad is that
students will have life experiences that
will improve themselves as people that
would have been otherwise impossible if
they had only studied in their own
countries it's a very complex sentence
I'm going to talk about complex
sentences at the end of this lesson by
the way this is the type of sentence
that an IELTS examiner looks at and
thinks whoa okay this guy or this girl's
got some got some skills cool but as I
said simple sentences if you're real if
you're not confident with your grammar
choose a simple sentence any day of the
week so let's have a look at this what's
the main advantage well well well if
life experiences that will improve
themselves people have life experiences
that will improve themselves that's my
main advantage there now I need to give
reasons why these experiences will
improve themselves or you give reasons
why studying at some universities will
lead to a better career you need to give
reasons why so now you need to answer
why give reasons for the main advantage
of studying abroad I've missed a slide
there I'm just going to show you my
example first and you can do yours I'm
giving reasons why does studying abroad
lead to personal growth being in another
country requires people to push
themselves beyond the norm into
unusually difficult experiences I'm
going to elaborate Italy on this in my
next sentence now you write your
sentence give reasons for the main
advantage
reason or reasons Ritchie says Sudha
says furthermore it is not easy to
understand others culture while staying
at home country fine Ritchie says
students unleash their unknown hidden
talent when they go through these
practical situations which in turn
increases their knowledge and experience
beautiful works you will learn Wael Ali
says it will encourage people to blend
in with an e blend in with different
societies with more confidence good nice
reason Hermann says students who are
staying overseas a self-reliant in order
to manage their own financial finances
plural and their lives plural finances
plural lives plural Julia says the
quality of the education overseas is
more likely to be higher and is linked
to the modern positive trends in this
area good reasons well done let's we've
just written our sentence - let's write
our sentence 3 now we give examples for
example I'm going to show you mine first
so I'm going to use a personal example
it says this for example when I studied
in Indonesia and India as part as a 20
year old sorry I'm going to read that
again for example when I studied in
Indonesia in India as a 20 year old I
was continually pushed out of my comfort
zone into psychological states that were
unique and novel and then I had to adapt
to no matter what that's an example so
give an example for your your main
advantage give an example of your main
advantage for
example for instance use a connecting
word like this
good Mohammed well done
good
says for example when I went to Paris to
study the way of study was complete
practical bases which helped me a lot to
learn there I'm going to reword that
Ruchi for example when I studied in
Paris the way that the French studied
was a lot more practical and this helped
me learn a lot something like that Sudha
for example it has been found that
students who pursue their higher
education from overseas tend to blend
more easily and effortlessly with people
from different backgrounds beautiful
beautiful well done Herrmann says to
illustrate nice when I was studying in
Australia I had to balance my career
study and social life which I believe
would not be challenging if I stayed in
my own country
good good good well done Julia for
instance many educational providers are
able to offer the best lecturers and
high qualified staff through a blended
learning approach combining face to face
in online classes fantastic good example
Mohammed is for example one of my
friends went to the USA to complete his
PhD in information technology because he
did not get this opportunity as it was
not available in Pakistan excellent well
done so I read you my example I talked
about personal experience of mine one
more sentence then we've written our
paragraph what we need to do is we need
to pull up and pull our paragraph
together how we do that is we restate
the main advantage we say for this
reason or therefore or something like
that I'll show you mine mine says these
ultra challenging experiences the I got
really technical here I'm sorry I got a
bit carried away these ultra challenging
experiences are paradoxically the main
advantage of studying overseas because
they make you grow as a person so I've
restated the main advantage was personal
growth and I've just done that through a
different sentence okay so try doing
that restate your main advantage
guru Chi says for the final sentence of
paragraph 1 these significant challenges
make you a better person along with
great learning good Mohammed says
therefore comma this kind of need makes
migrating to another country for higher
education essential Herman says as can
be seen this advantage is this advantage
has a huge huge profoundest has a
profound impact on the future on the
future has an impact on the future of
students you need to get your
prepositions right there Herman Sudha
says becoming more aware of others
culture and understanding them others
cultures or others culture , and
understanding them , is thus one of the
biggest advantages of studying overseas
good well done you just need some commas
there because sort of listen to how I
read this becoming more aware of others
culture and understanding them mmm you
need a break you need to see others
culture , and understanding them , good
anymore
stew Lea therefore , the rich learning
environment can provide a positive
effect on students academic achievement
it's plural academic achievements good
well the good use of the apostrophe
Julie our perfect
fine so that was my crazy sentence we
have just written paragraph 1 which was
a where we described in detail the main
advantage I'm gonna read your mind it's
it's I was kinda look I was kind of
showing off using big vocabulary and
complex grammar and I'll show you why at
the end but let's just read this the
great I'm talking about the main
disadvantage remember it's a four
sentence paragraph the greatest benefit
of studying abroad is that students will
have life experiences that will improve
themselves as people that would have
been otherwise impossible if they had
only studied in their own countries
being in another country requires people
to push themselves beyond the norm into
unusually different difficult
experiences that's my reason my example
for example when I studied in Indonesia
and India as a 20 year old I was
continually pushed out of my comfort
zone into psychological states that were
unique and novel and that I had to adapt
to I've made a mistake adapt to no
matter what final sentence which restate
my main advantage these ultra
challenging experiences are
paradoxically the main advantage of
studying overseas because they make you
grow as a person it's a complex one but
cool fine how to write paragraph 2 where
we're not going to write paragraph 2
because we just wrote paragraph 1
the structure is the same but let's just
have a look it's the same thing you
outline the main disadvantage so now we
talk about the disadvantage we give
reasons we give examples we restate the
disadvantage so it's exactly the same
its paragraph 1 should say paragraph 2
here so the main disadvantage this is my
disadvantage paragraph see if you can
see the different sentence parts just
let me move this thing here the main
challenges so here's my disadvantage the
main challenges that students will face
while overseas will usually stem from
cultural and linguistic differences
these differences compose massive
obstacles for people because they
require one to move
beyond the familiar and into the unknown
which can often be awkward and quite
scary for instance while studying in
Indonesia I had to frequently make a
fool of myself in order to communicate
with the local people in their language
often times I felt embarrassed and I
longed to speak English and being the
familiarity of my own culture fine
so I've I've I've stated I've what was
the word I use I've stated the main
disadvantage there right at the
beginning
I've given reasons I've given an example
for instance and then I've wrapped up
the paragraph not quite explicitly I
must say oftentimes I felt embarrassed
and longed to speak English and being a
familiarity of my own culture I've done
this not explicitly but I have mentioned
language and culture challenge in the
final sentence there cool so that's what
the paragraph is you can do that one in
your own time okay maybe after this
lesson let's now move to the conclusion
because if you start well and you have a
good paragraph structure you want to
have a good conclusion you want to
finish well so you maximize your score
how do we write the conclusion well the
conclusion is the fourth paragraph and
it will have three sentences again we're
going to rewrite the general statement
from the question prompt we're going to
mention the main advantage and
disadvantage again
and we're going to give our opinion
again effectively what we're doing is
rewriting another we're writing another
introduction so you've got to make sure
that your conclusion matches with your
introduction so if you're in good
technology and universities and the
disadvantage being the cost in your
conclusion you should also be mentioning
the same things but just in different
words and the conclusion should also
follow on from your paragraphs so for
example in your introduction you wrote
about good technology and but it's
expensive the first paragraph would be
about good Technol
gee second power back paragraph will be
about the expenses in your conclusion
you're going to mention the same factors
again this is how you get the coherence
the I'll talk to you about the scoring
at the end just got a couple of
questions here nope all good let's have
a look at this introduction rewrite the
general statement here's the general
statement university students are
increasingly studying abroad as part of
their studies write this in a different
way and in a different way to your
introduction
good Julia fine Julia right to conclude
the recent tendency is that the
increasing number of students prefer to
complete their degrees plural degrees
not one degree their degrees plural
oversea it's good Julia I would write to
conclude mmm what would I write I would
write there is a recent tendency for
university students to prefer to
complete their degrees overseas I'd
probably reword that recent tendency is
not quite right
Mohamed says finally in this current era
it it'd be your verbs not quite right it
has become it has become more popular to
get education from overseas good Mohamed
well that just has become just that
present perfect verb their suitor says
in modern days students are gaining
their higher education from foreign
countries their high education program
students sorry in modern days students
gaining their higher education from
foreign countries is increasing
significantly well done Herman says to
sum up as we have noticed not quite at
home and don't put noticed just to sum
up there is a significant number of
students who prefer to study overseas
beautiful par mixes to put in a nutshell
no nutshell is not good in an academic
essay let's just say to conclude in
summary to near to conclude or in
summary is probably the best foreign way
of teaching will boost up your knowledge
tremendously nor all we're doing is
rewriting this sentence here we're not
putting any opinion in or any advantage
we're just rewriting this Ruchi says to
recapitulate more tertiary students
prefer studying abroad recently good
well done
all right fine what did I write I wrote
a really dead simple sentence
I just wrote studying overseas has
become incredibly common studying
overseas has become incredibly common
that's all I wrote simple clean tidy
grammatical sentence I've used some I've
used a nice verb here has become and
I've used this collocation adverb
adjectives incredibly comment it's like
saying I'm increasingly common it's not
it's a little bit different in meaning
but this is a simple straight sentence
and your essay should have some simple
sentences and some complex sentences
cool sentence to mention the main
advantage and disadvantage again here we
go
well done this opens significant avenues
for learning and practical exposure
though they have to cope with cultural
and language barriers or culture and
language barriers good well done
so you've stated both the advantage and
the disadvantage Julia says while
overseas study can bring some cultural
challenges this can open the additional
advantages in a future career good well
done that's fine Mohammed says it's
important to get more education from
other countries but the cost is very
high
good Mohammed's short simple just don't
forget that ' on it ears it's good
that's it Herman says although there is
a linguistic barrier problem students
will eventually overcome this and open
up an avenue for them to work overseas
excellent well done perfect just a
capital letter at the beginning of the
sentence and that is a perfect sentence
cool alright that's probably the hardest
sentence to write we need to mention the
main advantage in the main disadvantage
again this is what I wrote while
students will no doubt experience social
and language barriers if you remember in
my introduction I talked about cultural
and linguistic barriers or obstacles so
I'm using synonyms here different words
that mean the same thing while students
will no doubt experience social and
language barriers it is in fact these
barriers that lead to the main advantage
of studying abroad which is personal
growth so I've mentioned the advantage
here right at the end and I've put my
advantage
my disadvantages here social and
language barriers that's my second
sentence we've done that one now we're
on to our third sentence give your
opinion I'm just going to show you my
opinion as a contradiction of sorts it
is the hardship that ultimately makes
the
variants of studying abroad more
advantageous than disadvantageous that's
my opinion so ultimately I think that
the challenges the challenges that I was
talking about the social the cultural
and linguistic challenges actually
become the advantage so mine's a bit
complex but let's see what your opinion
is oops I'll leave that there write your
opinion and sum up the essay in a
beautiful sentence
good all right so what do we got what do
we got what do we got julia has written
I am inclined to believe that despite
the disadvantages the overall benefits
of studying abroad still mainstream that
doesn't make sense mainstream is the
wrong word here I would say the overall
benefits of studying abroad are
advantageous or are superior
ruchi says in my belief the cultural and
linguistic barriers do not hold much
significance in front of the experience
and knowledge gained good in front of is
probably the wrong preposition here in
my belief the cultural and linguistic
barriers do not hold much significance
compared to the experience and knowledge
gained that's better
Hermann as a result I strongly agree
that the benefit of studying abroad
outweighs the detrimental effects plural
monitors so as my point my my point of
view let's just say in my opinion in my
opinion I believe that spending more
money is nothing in front of getting
quality education in front of what's
this in front of preposition in my point
of view I believe that spending more
money is worth the quality of education
received that would be better
Richi good well Dan you fixed your
sentence there Sudha says despite having
financial hardship to study overseas for
higher education the benefits that
students gain by knowing other cultures
will be much more beneficial beautiful I
love it it's amazing if you just follow
a structure sentence by sentence
structure how powerful your essays can
become without a structure it's so easy
just to go blah and end up somewhere
where you don't want to be so
cool we've done that we've written our
conclusion sentence one sentence to
sentence three this is my conclusion I'm
going to read it to you studying
overseas has become incredibly common
well students will no doubt experience
social and language barriers it is in
fact these barriers that lead to the
main advantage of studying abroad which
is personal growth as a contradiction of
sorts it is the hardship that ultimately
makes the experience of studying abroad
more advantageous than disadvantageous
56 words we have written an essay this
is what it looks like if they didn't the
ODS examiner's didn't give me a 9 for
this I would be so upset I think this is
I actually write too many words I wrote
320 words because I was typing this is
worth a 9 I'm going to show you why why
would this essay that I wrote and yours
would probably get a good score looking
at some of those sentences and the
structure you used some of the grammars
not great still you might be you're
improving but why would mine get a 9
I'm a native speaker fine but let's have
a closer look
first thing is task response so let me
explain first there are four things that
the IELTS examiner's look for in your
essay one is task response which means
did you answer the question the second
is grammar did you use good grammar
third is vocabulary did you use precise
vocabulary the fourth one is coherence
did you use a good structure so let's go
through this so why would I get a nine
for task response answering the question
because everything I wrote was about
this everything I wrote I never went off
topic I never talked about anything else
I followed a strict structure that
followed this completely so we'd get a
nine for task response fine
what about vocabulary why would I get a
nine for vocabulary greatest benefit
otherwise impossible unusually difficult
experiences beyond the norm
continually pushed out of my comfort
zone psychological states unique and
novel adapt no matter what ultra
challenging experiences paradoxically
I've used a mixture of simple clear
vocabulary and academic complex
vocabulary but what you will notice is
that words aren't individuals words
often come together as pairs like
greatest benefit or what was the one I
use incredibly common incredibly common
greatest benefit so when you're writing
you don't want to be thinking in terms
of one word you want to be thinking in
terms of phrases greatest benefit
otherwise impossible beyond the norm
unique and novel or no matter what this
will get you an IELTS nine for
vocabulary what about grammar okay let's
look at this because this looks a bit
colorful looks like I am I don't know
what that looks like actually here we go
let's first look at the red words these
are verbs red verbs so I've used a
variety of different verbs will improve
had have studied requires simple present
future simple had have studied are past
perfect in the passive will have future
simple would have been well this is a
present perfect with a modal verb
studied past simple pushed past simple
work past simple had to adapt our
present simple make present simple I've
used a variety of different verbs not
really consciously they just they just
appeared as I was thinking and so these
were the verbs I used but in order to
get a nine you need to use complex verbs
but here's the thing only use them if
you understand or if you are confident
that they're correct or accurate if you
are not confident and you're just trying
and experimenting that's
then using simple verbs that you're
confident with right what else have we
got in here well we've got green ones
and nouns benefit experiences plural
more than one experience experiences
students plural countries norm comfort
zone experiences overseas psychological
states get your singular and plural
nouns incorrect the benefit the norm the
main advantage a person get your
articles right prepositions as in beyond
in in to in out of into as as and the
final one is these orange words that
these words connect a simple sentence to
another simple sentence to create a
complex sentence that if that that that
and that because so we've got
conjunctions and pronouns the last thing
I want to point out to you are the other
pronouns that I've used here so we've
got C I'm talking about students so I
talked about themselves plural they
plural themselves plural when I studied
in Indonesia I was continually pushed
out of my so you can see how are the the
pronouns are the same as the nouns if
I'm talking plural here more than one
then my pronouns will be plural more
than one cool and down here down here I
go back to experiences the main
advantage of studying overseas because
they I'm talking about students okay
that's a little bit different anyway
that's grammar last one is coherence
coherence means that my paragraphs my
introduction my power
graph 1 paragraph 2 in my conclusion
flow from the very first letter capital
letter right down through to the full
stop
okay that structure I showed you uses
this flow and the other thing about that
structure I showed you is that it
there's it it's it's cyclical its
circular the introduction goes into
sentence to which goes into sentence 3
which goes into the conclusion the
concluding sentence and that links back
to the first sentence so let's recap
what we learned so that when you see a
question about advantages/disadvantages
you know exactly what to do you look at
the general statement you look at the
advantages you think about the
disadvantages we're going to write a
four paragraph essay with an
introduction paragraph one paragraph to
a conclusion here is the entire essay
sentence by sentence it's not that
difficult to memorize because this the
introduction is the exact same thing as
the conclusion paragraph one is the
exact same thing as paragraph two all
you're memorizing in fact are seven
sentences and that's that cool any
questions any questions all right how do
I do this
where's my chat where's my check on to
do there where is my chat chat there it
is cool cool cool answering questions
Julia the word mainstream was I think
you have a an incorrect understanding of
the word mainstream the way that you
used it in that paragraph was was
incorrect I can't remember what what it
was but please check out that word you
might want to think of an alternative
word if you're on YouTube by the way and
you have not clicked like please do it
will mean a lot to me click subscribe as
well while you're there
why not and if you're feeling very
adventurous you can check out WWE 2
language comm where you can sign up for
free and get some free practice
materials and stuff like that Julia says
J is it possible in this type of essay
to write 2 paragraphs just about the
advantages it is but that structure I
showed you it's better to write an
advantage disadvantage and then come to
a conclusion why because it's a bit more
complex and the examiners will prefer it
rather than you're saying
studying abroad is great because of a
studying abroad is great because of B
goodbye
no it's better to say studying abroad
has advantages here they are here are
the disadvantages
I think this so you'll get a higher
score if you use if you write both types
of paragraphs
ah Ruchi do we need to use indentations
now Ritchie I'm going to show you what
that was my cursor where's my cursor
nope I can't show you look there it is
there got it
I'm going to show you what your essay
should look like on test day hold on
you
sorry the alarm was about to go off in
my office this is what your essay should
look like on test day where is it did it
to do like this Ruchi there's no there's
no indentations you write like this you
just leave a line between your
paragraphs that's all no indentations
introduction paragraph one paragraph two
conclusion that's it cool all right I'm
just looking at the chat on Facebook and
any questions on Facebook how important
is spelling a good question actually
because they just have the four criteria
they don't mention spelling and let me
think I actually don't know the answer
to that I know that those four things
task response grammar vocabulary and
coherence are the key things you need to
worry about any more questions on
YouTube feel free ok can you hear me now
can you hear me just typing yes if you
can hear me routine no indentation for
the letter writing either what's going
on
- two - two - should have audio okay so
DV answers ask the same question can we
write just about the advantages and the
answer is you can but the structure I
just showed you will become redundant so
do write both the advantages and
disadvantages the examiner will prefer
it
okay so ritika it's got a good question
radhika has asked hey J please tell me
if I use simple language will I be able
to score a 7 or higher the answer is
simple accurate language is good complex
inaccurate language is bad so 2 simple
right straight sentences right right
right
accurate sentences try to make some join
sentences using because or and or which
or that for example Sushma so will we be
given exactly 40 minutes no you're given
60 minutes to do both tasks writing task
1 and writing task 2 you have to manage
your own time so spend about 20 minutes
on the first task 40 minutes on the
second task interesting cool all right
any more data to do okay all good I
think that's all thanks very much for
coming along I appreciate it I hope it
was helpful I've just realized that
anyway thanks 3 McCarthy banyak Amanda
rusty sometimes you'll be lucky